MATHOMATIC(1)
MATHOMATIC(1)



NNAAMMEE
       mathomatic - automatic algebraic manipulator


SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       mmaatthhoommaattiicc [
       --cchhqqrrttuuvv ] [ --mm number ] [
       input_files ]


DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       Mathomatic is a portable, general purpose CAS (Computer
       Algebra System) that can symbolically solve, simplify,
       combine, and  compare  algebraic equations,  perform
       complex number and polynomial arithmetic, etc.
       It does some calculus and handles all  algebra,
       except  trigonometry  and logarithms.

       Mathomatic is entirely hand-written in optimized C.
       It does not permit extremely large expressions,
       which can take a lot of memory  and  time.  Instead
       reliability, ease of use, and speed are its features.

       All  arithmetic is double precision floating point
       with 14 decimal dig‐ its accuracy.


OOPPTTIIOONNSS
       --cc     Toggle color mode.  This mode outputs ANSI
       escape  sequences  to
              make  each  level  of  parentheses a different
              color, for easier reading.


       --hh     Enable HTML output mode (also valid XHTML)
       and disable  readline
              input.  This makes Mathomatic output suitable
              for inclusion in a web page.  The color mode flag
              affects this mode, allowing  HTML color  output.
              By  default, Mathomatic uses maximum brightness
              colors for HTML, so it is recommended that the
              web page  have  a dark background.


       --mm nnuummbbeerr
              Change  the memory size of equation spaces.
              It is followed by a decimal floating point
              number  which  is  a  multiplier  of  the default
              equation  size.   Please don't set this higher
              than 10, unless you know what you are doing.


       --qq     Set quiet mode.  The startup message and
       prompts  are  not  dis‐
              played.   This  is  useful when piping or
              redirecting input into Mathomatic, because the
              input won't be displayed, so prompt out‐ put
              should be turned off.


       --rr     Completely  disable  readline input
       processing.  Readline allows
              using the cursor keys and outputs terminal
              control  codes  which can be turned off with
              this option.


       --tt     Set   test  mode.   Used  when  testing
       and  comparing  output.
              Bypasses loading startup file, turns off color
              mode  and  read‐ line, sets infinite screen
              width and height, etc.


       --uu     Guarantee standard output is unbuffered.


       --vv     Display  version  number,  compile  flags
       used,  maximum memory
              usage, and then exit.  The maximum memory usage
              displayed  does not include stack size (which
              varies) or executable size.


GGEENNEERRAALL
       First  you type in your algebraic equations in standard
       infix notation, then you can solve them by typing
       in the variable name at  the  prompt, or  perform
       operations  on  them  with  simple English commands.
       Type "help" for the help command.  If the command is
       longer than 4  letters, you only need to type in the
       first 4 letters.  Most commands operate on the current
       equation by default.

       Documentation is available in HTML format, see
       the documentation direc‐ tory or the web site
       "www.mathomatic.org".


EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTT
       EEDDIITTOORR This  environment  variable
       specifies the editor to use for the
              edit command.


FFIILLEESS
       ~~//..mmaatthhoommaattiiccrrcc
              Optional startup file containing  Mathomatic
              set  options.   It should  be  a  text  file
              with one set option per line.  Do not include
              the word "set".


RREEPPOORRTTIINNGG BBUUGGSS
       Report bugs to <gesslein@panix.com>.


AAUUTTHHOORR
       George Gesslein II <gesslein@panix.com>



                                                                 MATHOMATIC(1)
